1. what is echo command in linux ?
using echo you can print the text in terminal.

2. How to check the hostname or server name ?
using "hostname" command

3. How do you check the current user ?
using "whoami" command

4. How do you check the current path/directory in terminal?
using "pwd" command

5.what is different between relative path and absolute path?
relative path : it will start from current working directory
absolute path : it will give full path of file or directory

6. which command used to create the file in linux?
using "touch" command we can create the file

7. how will you edit existing file ?
using "gedit" command

8. how do you check top 5 line in file
using "head 5 " command

9. how can you read file without using cat command?
using " less or more " command 

10. how do yo check file permissions?
using "ls -l" command

11. how do you check the current ip address?
using "ip addr" command

12. how do you list hidden files?
using  "ls -la" command

13. how to see all the recently used commands?
using "history" command

14. what is root?
root is admin or super user

15. what is inode and how to find it for a file?
inode is nothing but index node. it serves a unique identifier for a specific piece of metadata on a filesystems

16. command for counting words and lines ?
using " wc -l filename" command

17. what is use of pipe command or how can you combine two commands?
pipe command is used for to comine the two commands and give the output

18. what is use of shred command?
shred command is used to delete the file permanently
shred -u filename
shred --remove filemane

19. how to check   system   architecture info?
using lscpu

20. how do you combine content of two files?
using "cat file1 file2 > file3"

30. how can you find type of file?
using "file filename" command it will give you the more information about the file

31. what are diffrent types of permissions for file in linux?
read (r)
write (w)
Executable (x)

32. which permission will allow user to execute or run a script?
we need provide executable access (x)

33. how to terminate or stop the running process?
using kill command

34. what is different between kill and kill -9?
kill -9 will stop/terminate a program forcefully   

35. what is different between CLI and GUI?
CLI = command Line Interface (example linux)
GUI = Graphical User Interface (example windows)






